Now let's talk about version control.
You can't do continuous integration without rock‑solid version control
systems and disciplined engineering best practices.
Both are required.
The first one is easy.
It's just a tool.
But can you motivate, guide, and lead your team of engineers to create
even better best practices leading to superior software?
I think you can.
Let's hit some key concepts of version control.
Version control systems are a category of software tools that help
a software team manage changes to source code.
Well, that's pretty much it.
You need to know what the most current representation of the latest
production build is in any earlier builds or versions.
Version control software keeps track of every
modification to the code in a database.
I am sure everyone has used or experienced one tool or another.
Even if you are a single developer, you should always use version control.
The database that keeps all of this information organized is known as
the repository and sometimes referred to as the repo.
So a repo is a database or structure which stores the source code
itself and all of the metadata for those files.
Some of the metadata that a repository contains includes a historical
record of changes in the repository, who made the changes,
notes on the changes, and much, much more.
In a repo, your app will have a main branch,
which is the latest and greatest fully tested and
functional code that's running in production.
That is the main branch.
It has many other names in practice, such as mainline, integration,
trunk, baseline, master, or others. Pick something that works for you.
Now let's look a little deeper into the features of a repo.
Here are the key features of version control. The technique of code
branching enables software development teams to work on different parts
of a project without impacting each other.
Teams can more efficiently organize work on a shared
codebase by branching and later merging.
A single branch is a copy of a codebase managed in a version control system.
Branching helps software development teams work in parallel.
It separates out work in progress from tested and stable code.
The codebase in a version control system is often
referred to as the trunk, baseline, master, mainline, or just playing main.
Actually, you can call it anything you want,
but picking an industrywide term is likely better. Developers or others
create branches originating either directly or indirectly from the main line
to develop an isolation from the main codebase.
This keeps the overall product stable.
It is a best practice to update these working branches
with changes in related code lines.
This is done by merging down, if you will.
We will discuss this in more detail in the next section.
Now that you've finished work in your branch,
how to get it back into the rest of the codebase?
Well, you merge it back.
Sometimes this may be known as merging up.
Branching creates a relationship between the branch and the code line, you know,
the main codebase or the target where it came from.
While a developer is working on their own branch,
other devs may also be submitting changes to the related code
line or main branch that you branched off of. Now let's dive a little deeper into branching, merging, and the kanban board.